Problem 3 now we have a potential difference of one hundred volts here is applied across two of them
that are in series with each other.
All right.
They give us the capacitance of only see one and they also say we have a voltage across it.
That's seventy five volts.
So first question what's the voltage across the second one.
Okay so imagine I measure the voltage right here.
What value would I get.
Again whatever voltage I have over here one hundred I have to have.
They have to sum to the voltage across both capacitors like this because they're going to be in series.
All right.
So v total that we would kind of write that as an equation has to be the voltage across capacitor C
one plus the voltage across capacitor C two.
So this is one hundred.
And I've given you that V.C. one is is seventy five.
So right here this here has to be seventy five.
So you have to have that the voltage across capacitor C two should be twenty five volts.
OK.
You have to have twenty five volts right here.
All right.
So that's it for that one.
That's pretty straightforward.
Find the capacitance see to it what is this capacitance C2.
Well how do we do this.
If I was gonna write an equation well one capacitor equation I could write is that the charge on capacitor
C two is its capacitance and multiplied by the voltage which I just calculated.
OK.
So if I knew how to calculate the charge then I could easily get to this because I know this is twenty
five volts.
So how do we get the charge.
Well there's one thing to know about capacitors in series is that the charge has to be the same on all
the capacitors.
So what I could do is I could use this in order to find the capacity C2.
So what would be the charge on Q one.
I'd have a same equation here except for Q one so I would have the capacity and C one multiplied by
the voltage across c 1.
And again this here has to be equal to C2 multiplied by the voltage across C two.
So let's just rearrange just to get one final expression for the capacitance C to see one again multiplied
by the ratio of both of these.
So this is easy to evaluate.
I'm just gonna leave this in micro Feride so this is 10 micro Feride and the ratio of the voltages here
I have seventy five and here I have twenty five.
So this here gives me three multiplied by ten so C two has to be thirty micro Feride.
All right so I mean go ahead and write that on the figure over here.
Okay.
So that wasn't too bad.
What's the equivalent capacitance of the system.
So there's kind of two ways to do this one one is to again remember that they are in series and if you
have capacitors in series or the equivalent capacitance is the sum of the reciprocal equals one over
the reciprocal of the equivalent.
It's the opposite when you do circuits with resistors.
So in here again I'm just gonna leave everything in microfiber adds and have one over 10 plus one over
30.
Okay.
And now you've got to do a bit of math over here.
What I'd probably do is put this on a common denominator of 30.
So if I do three over 30 plus one over 30 excuse me for over 30.
OK so see equivalent.
Now just gotta flip that fraction thirty over four.
Okay.
So the equivalent one should be equal to seven point five micro Feride.
Notice that the equivalent is smaller than any one of the capacitors in a circuit.
Okay.
So this is kind of a one way of doing this another way of doing it is again if I replace this with an
equivalent capacitance I'm going to get that the charge is also equal to the charge on the equivalent
capacitance and I know what the charge is I can calculate that pretty easily because I know the capacitance
that I know the voltage so at the end what you could do here is simply use that equation right there
that the equivalent capacitance the charge on it is equal to the capacitance multiplied by the voltage
across the voltage across would be simply a hundred volts.
All right.
So how much charge is on the equivalence I can use any one of those I can use kind of Q One multiplied
by the voltage across it and that's C equivalence multiplied by one hundred.
All right.
So C1 I'm sorry I wrote a mistake over here.
This should be c 1 C1.
Okay.
So again just multiplying that through so we're gonna have 10 micro ad for this.
The voltage across C was seventy five and that equals to the equivalent capacitance multiplied by 100
anyway you could see here at the end we're going to get the same value we're still going to get C equivalent
equals to seven point five micro Feride.
Okay.
So that's kind of a another way of doing it for this problem quickly running out of space here.
Oh.
So how much charges on each capacitance.
No.
This is super easy to calculate.
All right.
Because we've we've used this equation several times.
So let's just go ahead it's the same charge on each capacitor so once we know this again I may as well
just use this one the equivalent multiplied by the voltage.
That's all you need.
It doesn't matter which one you choose.
We have to have the same charge.
For me it's just easier to use the equivalence right now since I just calculate the value.
So the charge is going to be equal to C equivalent multiplied by V across the equivalent capacitor which
is 100 volts.
So this is seven point five.
Now I'm gonna go to Fair Ed so it's negative six Feride and multiplied by a hundred.
Okay.
So at the end I should get 750.
This will be in times 10 to the negative six.
Cool on this is the total charge.
So I'm running out of space here okay.
Anyway that's how you would calculate how much charge there is on the capacitor.
And again it doesn't matter which equation you use over here.
If you use any of the other ones you can use Q1 or Q2 you know the value of the capacitance multiplied
by the voltage across.
You could see that all these products are going to end up giving you a 750 times tend to the negative
six.